Cris, throughout the program
we have analyzed the different
types of cultures, using various
models as well, and the
ways in which a company
can be organized.
Then I would love to have
you analyze, in your case, in the
case of Pernod Ricard, what kind
of culture is predominant now,
what are your goals, and
that you put us examples
that help us understand why your
culture is of one type or
another.
We currently have an adocratic
culture, although it is true
that we come from a clanique
culture, our goal is to
become a 100% adocratic culture.
What are we doing for that?
Adocratic cultures are
agile cultures where the
levels of bureaucracy
are minimal.
A clear example in this case, for
example, how do we, our
commercials, settle the bills
of expenses?
Traditionally they had to get into
an excel and had to put ticket per
ticket all the information of
the tickets that they had to
send then in that excel to
their manager.
In this case, we have developed
a tool that is available in the
market, that the commercials make
a photo of that ticket and directly
all the data go up to the system
and send it to their boss for
approval, with which you
win a lot of time and a lot of
agility and the commercials
can focus on providing
value and not so much on
administrative tasks that
take them so much time.
Effectively bureaucracy, I think
this will understand everyone who
has worked in a large company,
although also in small companies
in many cases they are making inefficiencies,
bureaucracy what obliges you
is to be dedicating a percentage
of your time and your effort
to things that do not
bring any value.
In very hierarchical, very functional
companies, bureaucracy has always
been a scam in this sense.
You are innovating, using technology
so that people from the time they
arrive at their job until they
leave at night are creating
the corresponding of their
job.
actually is.
Another initiative we are
doing is to speed up decision-
making, we have created different
decision groups beyond the
management committee, that
is, traditional companies do
what the management committee
makes all the decisions,
both strategic and operational.
We have created a group that
is the direct reports
of this management committee,
in our case we have
a management committee
composed of six people
and these six people report
40.
So what we did is this group
we have given them an entity
and a responsibility to make
operational decisions that
speed up a lot, so that you
now have 40 people with the
responsibility and the entity
enough to make decisions
about the six you had
previously.
So we don’t have to issue it all,
that is, we just now report
it to the management committee
and before you just present
it to them for approval.
It has been won very quickly.
Many, many, many, you realize
that now there are 40 people
making operational decisions
and it is an agility that in
times logically.
Of course, in addition to 40 more
people stuck in the day-to-day operative
that make decisions at that time
with the knowledge they have versus
reporting to the boss that is in
the management committee you have
to explain, you have to put
it in context because it
is not so put in the day-to-
day that they meet, make the
decision, etc.
That is, you get a lot of speed.
Another example of how we move
towards the culture of autocracy, the
channels of communication.
Nowadays, any company has
many communication channels
but they are not always
managed effectively.
A good example here
is our offices.
We have been in a new office for
a year and a half where there are
no offices and then you arrive one
day in the morning and sit where
you want and where you want you
can be next to the company’s
general manager or next to the
chief of administration.
This allows you to eliminate
the barriers or barriers
that were previously present.
In this sense, for example,
we organize very many meetings
beyond the presencials, that is,
at best the management committee
calls us to the entire company,
that not all of us are in Madrid
because we have a network of
sales across Spain, calls
us to a meeting by Skype where
it informs us of how we go to goals.
That is what has meant, because
very much transparency when communicating
because employees are informed
at all times of how we are at
the level of goals and logically
very much efficiency
and effectiveness when communicating.
What you say about the office in
small companies, that is more or
less natural by the space itself,
although it is true that each has
its place and you are saying that
you do not have assigned positions,
but man, in traditional small companies
it is true that the manager before
was separated in a desk, which
makes him a little more
inaccessible, but in large the
problem is usually that you
are very far from your bosses,
then communication flows badly
especially from below up and
it is also true that you are
very far from other departments
or other functions, in
your case you can sit
next to, you are of finance
and you sit next to marketing,
for example.
Effectively, either next to
the general manager or next to
a accounting department, that allows
you to flow much more the communication
channel and also the
collaboration.
In this sense, for example, another
very clear example of doctrinal
culture is project management.
Traditionally, companies do a
management by objectives,
you are in a position and you have
responsibilities accredited
to that position.
We have studied when we saw the
different types of organizations,
we saw the functional
or matrix, you belong to
sales and your boss is the
sales director.
We now, for example, to be a doctrinal
organization, what we are doing
is project management, that is,
you form part of a project where
there are colleagues First,
an agility in decision-making,
because there are key departments
that without the need to present
the project to the management
committee can allow you to
make a much more operative
decision.
Basically you don’t block yourself
because you don’t have to rely
on another person from another
department you don’t know, who sees
you as a stopper, who has no
implication in the goal of your
project has to be by your side.
This is what encourages liquid
organizations, which, for example,
also has another very specific
case that we have of doctrinal
culture is job crafting
that is very related to these
liquid structures.
What is Job Crafting?
Basically what companies normally
do is that they go out to look
for people when they are generated
a position or another new creation,
they will look for people based
on a specific position.
We have changed that strategy
and we focus much more
on the person and not the position,
so that you go looking for talent
and that person that makes
your talent different to the
company, regardless
of the position even of
the department.
This, well, first I congratulate
you for everything you are doing
and this job crafting I would
like you to explain it
in more detail later.